This article was written 9/2020 on the ethical use of facial recognition.

According to the article, Security Industry Standard (SIA) released new policies that was supposed to guide deployment and development of facial recognition technology.  They stated that all technology products must be used in lawful, ethical, and nondiscriminatory purposes. The SIA claims they are committed to following the policies in the application of facial recognition tools in private, corporate, and government environments.

The CEO, Don Erickson, stated that “SIA recognized that some community leaders have expressed deeply-held views calling for the end of facial recognition technology use by law enforcement and the private sector.” He continued, “We respectfully but firmly disagree. Facial recognition technology offers tremendous benefits to society when used effectively and responsible and with appropriate safeguards.” They have included some core guidelines in the article, and these are including: ensuring transparency surrounding the use of facial recognition, establishing a clear and defined purpose for the use of facial recognition by organizations, using high-performing and accurate technology, incorporating human oversight and review, protecting data security, ensuring privacy by design, training and education users of technology, improving or eliminating biased or discriminatory software, and maintaining ethical acquisition of facial recognition technology. There were many different groups from within SIA that resulted in these policies.

By ensuring that the technology is accurate, this will help prevent biased or discriminatory software and will allow for ethical implementation of facial recognition technology. To assist the product in being used ethically, training and educating the users of the technology will go a long way. If the users are trained and educated in the uses of facial recognition, then there can also be human oversight and review. If every use of facial recognition is being viewed by multiple people, the acts of biased or discriminatory behavior will drop dramatically.

It is important that facial recognition does not violate user’s privacy when using facial recognition. If the user feels that their privacy has deteriorated and the trust between user and producer, then the use of the product will decrease until the product is no longer used. By keeping the use of facial recognition transparent and giving it a clear and defined purpose, it will help all parties involved use facial recognition for ethical reasons.

SIA’s core principles to the production and application of facial recognition focus on treating how the technology is applied and invited stakeholders to review them. SIA believe that that by holding “meaningful discussions leading to common-sense approaches on how the technology is used.” This is important because SIA gets their partners involved in the company and the conversation.

1105 Media, Inc. (2020, September 09). SIA issues policy on ethical use of facial recognition. Retrieved September 13, 2020, from https://securitytoday.com/articles/2020/09/09/sia-issues-policy-on-ethical-use-of-facial-recognition.aspx?admgarea=ht.businesscontinuity
