This was a short article that I wrote on social engineering in 9/2020

There are lots of ways that a social engineer could gain access to a system and the information within. Some of these ways including: Asking security questions, sending emails that appear to be from a friend, by exploiting employees and management in numerous ways. People are willing to do whatever it takes to gain access to some information, and it doesn’t take a long time to double check and keep your business and your personal information safe.

Having asked peers, some information that would be valuable to social engineers would be answers to the security questions. A lot of the questions asked in security questions when trying to prove someone’s identity could be asked in a very general sense. Some examples would include, “Where are you from?”, “When is your birthday?”, “Where did you meet your spouse?” and more. It is important to answer these questions with multiple answers. Another way that social engineers could get a person’s secure information is by making an email look like it is from a friend. These emails could contain a link or a download that would install malicious content onto your phone or computer.

There are lots of security issues, usually they stem from just being obvious and simple to fix. For example, when you go to a store, does the store have cameras? Is there assets protection at this store? If the store appears to have cameras, how many of those cameras work or are actively recording what happens in the store? If a store or building does not have cameras or some form of security, it would be very easy for someone to exploit the people working there and gain access to data and information. A social engineer could say they are a maintenance person doing routine work to fix something and exploit the employees or management staff and create a backdoor into a system to gain access whenever they want. It is important to double check where a person is from and whether it is a routine check or if it is something else.

A lot of websites on the local Chamber of Commerce website were Facebook pages. This could be dangerous because anybody can post on these, or there could be a database breach and the information of the owners of the page could be compromised. While this could happen to any web host, it is still important to keep this in mind when creating a web page and to keep attackers from gaining access to your business.

In summary, anybody could be a social engineer looking to gain access to sensitive information. It is important to double check all facts and make sure that somebody is who they say they are. Someone could pretend to be your long-lost friend, or a prince looking to give you money, or somebody who was beaten and, in the hospital, needing your help.

W. (2020). What is Social Engineering? Examples and Prevention Tips. Retrieved September 20, 2020, from https://www.webroot.com/us/en/resources/tips-articles/what-is-social-engineering

McPherson, L. (2020, June 01). The 10 Most Common Password Security Questions. Retrieved September 20, 2020, from https://stumbleforward.com/2012/08/20/the-10-most-common-password-security-questions/
